All right here is concept check five cent batteries used to light a bulb is shown an identical battery.
This one here on the left is connected now by closing the switch to close that up over here.
And the question is what happens to the bulb when I close the switch so it goes out and goes dimmer
slightly dimmer stays the same and gets slightly brighter gets noticed lewdly brighter or combination
of kind of two of these answers.
So in order to kind of look at this one I would suggest Well let's see what happens initially before
I close the switch.
OK.
Before you close the switch if you apply a loop rule Kurkov loop rule over here what you're going to
find here again.
Both of these batteries here soon to be the same.
Now let's do that.
And now if I do a loop rule around this one this here has a resistance are let's label the current through
here just as big.
I know what you're going to find here.
If I do a loop around this direction over here so you'd add the voltage of the battery you get V and
then you would get a voltage drop across that resistor given by minus our ohms law.
And then you go back to where you started.
So you'd find that the current here is equal to V divided by the resistance.
Now how about now once you close the switch what happens once you close the switch.
Now this battery here becomes activated.
Right.
Imagine I did a loop rule now and I went across this outer loop where would I get well again and started
here at the red point.
Let's go around in the clockwise fashion.
So again you get V and then you get minus i r equals zero.
And look what you get.
You get the exact same current.
All right.
So you get the exact same current here whether or not you put one battery or two batteries.
OK.
So the brightness of the bulb has to stay the same if the current stays the same there is no difference.
Now you might ask what really is the difference now in this problem.
I mean so the current in this branch over here stays the same current over here stays the same current
flowing through the resistor stays the same.
However if you are now going to just look at the current in each individual branch what you would find
now is that the battery doesn't have to work as hard if the current is the same through this resistor
it means that the power dissipated in this resistor is the same whether or not you include one battery
or two battery.
So the only difference now is that the batteries don't have to work as hard.
The power dissipated in the resistor has to equal to the total power supplied by each battery.
Now the way you really show this now so you imagine here we have that current I kind of flowing in this
outer branch in order to really show that the current Now what's going to happen is that the current
in each battery is going to be cut in half.
And the way you show that is unfortunately you do have to include a little bit of resistance so I just
want to just show you how to do this.
I imagine there was a little bit of internal resistance to each battery and I imagine now we're going
to call the current through this one let's call this one going to call the current in this middle branch
call it to and what we have here is we have a junction will either at the top or the bottom and the
junction rule tells us that I won.
Plus I too must be equal to I.
So now we need a way to link.
I want an I too.
We just know the total current here the total current is given by this expression here.
But how do we find the individual current through each branch in order to do this you really have to
introduce a little bit of resistance and you'll see it's going to cancel out.
But in order to do the math by applying Kirchoff's laws you have to do that.
So now we're going to do we're into a loose rule and we're going to go on this elder and then come back
through the middle.
So if I do that in again I'll choose the let's shoot clockwise direction again.
And what we're going to do or just we're just going round this way through the battery we're going to
assume there's a little bit of resistance and then come back down.
All right.
So plie Kirchoff's law the first thing I encounter is that voltage of the battery V.
Now if there is there's a little resistance there's going to be a drop in the drop voltage drops that
little resistance is going to be this.
And now I go back I go through the battery now but I'm going in the opposite direction of the current.
It looks like this again I just assume the internal resistance of the battery is the same.
And now look what happens.
Now I cross this ideal well enough so you get mine and then you go back to where you started.
Right let's look at this expression Vee's cancel out.
Now you see why I had to introduce a little bit of resistance if I didn't have that.
There you would just have zero equals zero.
But by introducing both of these terms you could see now about simplify this expression we have we have
a little R on both terms actually you can cancel it out now.
So it really doesn't matter what the internal resistance is which you do this and you can show now that
I one has to be equal to Aitu.
So that's kind of one equation.
And now if you go to the top this is our junction rule if I one equals the Aitu that means that to I
on have to be equal to the total burn I.
So now you can see that the current through each battery B is actually cut in half kind of different
ways of looking at this problem.
But in both cases the brightness has to stay the same.
And we got that just from the first part.